# Parameterize System
There are two common ways to parameterize a system by the classes of objects it creates. 

## Subclass
One way is to *subclass the class that creates the objects*。
- This corresponds to using the Factory Method pattern. 
- The main drawback of this approach is that it can require creating a new subclass justto change the class ofthe product. Suchchanges can cascade. 
- For example,when the product creatorisitself created by a factory method, then you have to override its creator as well. 

## Object Composition
The other way to parameterize a system relies more on object composition: Define an object that's responsible for knowing the class of the product objects, and make it a parameter of the system. 

This is a key aspect of the Abstract Factory, Builder, and Prototype patterns. All three involve creating a new "factory object" whose responsibility is to create product objects. 
1. Abstract Factory has the factory object producing objects of several classes. 
2. Builder has the factory object building a complex product incrementally using a correspondingly complex protocol. 
3. Prototype has the factory object building a product by copying a prototype object. In this case, the factory object and the prototype are the same object, because the prototype is responsible for returning the product. 

## 比较
Consider the drawing editor framework described in the Prototype pattern. There are several ways to parameterize a GraphicToolby the class of product: 
- By applying the FactoryMethod pattern, a subclass ofGraphicToolwill be created for each subclass of Graphic in the palette. GraphicToolwill have a NewGraphic operation that each GraphicTool subclass will redefine. -
- By applying the Abstract Factory pattern, there will be a class hierarchy ofGraphicsFactories, one for each Graphic subclass. Each factory createsjust one product in this case: CircleFactory will create Circles, LineFactory will create Lines, and so on. A GraphicToolwill be parameterized with a factory for creating the appropriate kind of Graphics. 
- By applying the Prototype pattern, each subclass of Graphics will implement the Clone operation, and a GraphicTool will be parameterized with a prototype of the Graphic it creates


# 使用
Which pattern is best depends on many factors.In our drawing editor framework, the
Factory Method pattern is easiest to use at first. It's easy to define a new subclass of
GraphicTool, and the instances of GraphicTool are created only when the palette is
defined. The main disadvantage here is that GraphicTool subclasses proliferate, and
none of them does very much.

Abstract Factory doesn't offer much of an improvement, because it requires an equally
large GraphicsFactory class hierarchy. Abstract Factory would be preferable to Factory
Method only if there were already a GraphicsFactory class hierarchy—either because
the compiler provides it automatically (as in Smalltalk or ObjectiveC) or because it's
needed in another part of the system

Overall, the Prototype pattern is probably the best for the drawing editor framework,
because it only requires implementing a Clone operation on each Graphics class.That
reduces the number of classes, and Clone can be used for purposes other than pure
instantiation (e.g., a Duplicate menu operation).

Factory Method makes a design more customizable and only a little more complicated.
Other design patternsrequire new classes, whereas FactoryMethod only requires a new
operation. People often use FactoryMethod asthe standard way to create objects, but it
isn't necessary when the class that's instantiated never changes or when instantiation
takes place in an operation that subclasses can easily override, such as an initialization
operation.

Designs that use Abstract Factory, Prototype, or Builder are even more flexible than
those that use FactoryMethod, but they're also more complex. Often, designs start out
using FactoryMethod and evolve toward the other creational patterns as the designer
discovers where more flexibility is needed. Knowing many design patterns gives you
more choices when trading off one design criterion against another