# Shared variables/Heap memory
- Memory that **can be shared between threads is called shared or heap memory**.
- All instance fields, static fields and array elements are stored in heap memory. 
- We use the term *variable*  to refer to both fields and array elements. 
- *Variables local to a method are never shared between threads*.

# Inter-thread Actions
- An inter-thread action is an action performed by a thread that could be detected by or be directly influenced by another thread. 
- Inter-thread actions include reads and writes of shared variables and synchronization actions, such as locking or unlocking a monitor, reading or writing a volatile variable, or starting a thread.

# Synchronization Actions
- All inter-thread actions other than reads and writes of normal and final variables are synchronization actions. 
- These include locks, unlocks, reads of and writes to volatile variables, actions that start a thread, and actions that detect that a thread is done.

# Happens-Before Edges
If we have two actions x and y, we use $$x{\overset{hb}{\longrightarrow}}y$$ to mean that x happens before y. If x and y are actions of the same thread and x comes before y in program order, then $$x{\overset{hb}{\longrightarrow}}y$$

Synchronization actions also induce happens-before edges. We call the resulting edges synchronized-with edges, and they are defined as follows:
- There is a happens-before edge from an unlock action on monitor m to all subsequent lock actions on m (where subsequent is defined according to the synchronization order). 
- There is a happens-before edge from a write to a volatile variable v to all subsequent reads of v by any thread (where subsequent is defined according to the synchronization order). 
- There is a happens-before edge from an action that starts a thread to the first action in the thread it starts. 
- There is a happens-before edge between the final action in a thread T1 and an action in another thread T2 that detects that T1 has terminated. T2 may accomplish this by calling T1.isAlive() or doing a join action on T1. 
- If thread T1 interrupts thread T2, there is a happens-before edge from the interrupted by T1 to the point where any other thread (including T2) determines the T2 has been interrupted (by having an InterruptedException thrown or by invoking Thread.interruped or Thread.isInterrupted). 
In addition, we have two other rules for generating happens-before edges. 
- There is a happens-before edge from the write of the default value (zero, false or null) of each variable to the first action in every thread. 
- Happens-before is transitively closed. In other words, if x hb → y and y hb → z, then x hb → z.


It should be noted that the presence of a happens-before relationship between two actions does not necessarily imply that they have to take place in that order in an implementation.
However, they have to appear to share an ordering to the rest of the program. If it cannot be caught, it is not illegal. For example, the write of a default value to every field of an object constructed by a thread need not occur before the beginning of that thread, as long as no read ever observes that fact.
