# 步骤

1. Read the pattern once through for an overview. Pay particular attention to the Applicability and Consequences sections to ensure the pattern isright for your problem. 
2. Go back and study the Structure, Participants, and Collaborations sections. Make sure you understand the classes and objects in the pattern and how they relate to one another. 
3.  Look at the Sample Code section to seea concrete example of the pattern in code. Studying the code helps you learn how to implement the pattern. 
4.  Choose names for pattern participants that are meaningful in the application context. The names for participants in design patterns are usually too abstract to appear directly in an application. Nevertheless, it's useful to incorporate the participant name into the name that appears in the application. That helps make the pattern more explicit in the implementation. For example, if you use the Strategy pattern for a text compositing algorithm, then you might have classes SimpleLayoutStrategy or TeXLayoutStrategy. 
5.  Define theclasses. Declare their interfaces, establish their inheritance relationships, and define the instance variables that represent data and object references.Identify existing classes in your application that the pattern will affect, and modify them accordingly.
6.  Define application-specific names for operations in the pattern. Here again, the names generally depend on the application. Use the responsibilities and collaborations associated with each operation as a guide. Also, be consistent in your naming conventions. For example, you might use the "Create-" prefix consistently to denote a factory method. 
7.  Implement the operations to carry out the responsibilities and collaborations in the pattern. The Implementationsection offers hints to guide you in the implementation.The examples in the Sample Code section can help as well.

# 注意
Discussion of how to use design patterns would not be complete without a few words on **how not to use them**. 
Design patterns should not be applied indiscriminately（任意的）. Often they **achieve flexibility and variability by introducing additional levels of indirection**, and that can complicate a design and/or cost you some performance. 

A design pattern should only be applied when the** flexibility it affords is actually needed**. The *Consequences sections（设计模式描述的效果部分）* are most helpful when evaluating a pattern's benefits and liabilities.