# '展示图形'实例

# Responsibility
Conceptual 层次上，**责任是什么**

1. Locate the list of shapes in the database. 
2. Open up the list of shapes. 
3. Sort the list according to some rules. 
4. Display the individual shapes on the monitor.

# Interface
Specification 层次上，**怎么被使用**

对象及其（职责）接口列表

|   对象    | 职责 |
| :-----------: | :-----------: |
| ShapeDataBase | *getCollection*—Gets a specified collection of shapes|
| Shape (abstract class) | *display*—Defines interface for Shapes;<br> *getX*—Returns X location of Shape (used for sorting);<br>*getY*—Returns Y location of Shape (used for sorting)|
| Square (derived from Shape) | *display*—Displays a square (represented by this object)|
| Circle (derived from Shape)| *display*—Displays a circle (represented by this object)|
| Collection | *display*—Tells all contained shapes to display sort—Sorts the collection of shapes|
| Display | *drawLine*—Draws a line on the screen;<br> *drawCircle*—Draws a circle on the screen|


# Implementation
Implementation 层次，**具体如何实现**

The main program :
1. Main program creates an instance of the database object.
2. Main program asks the database object to find the set of shapes（Collection 对象保存 shapes）
3. Main program asks the collection to sort the shapes.
4. Main program asks the collection to display the shapes.
5. The collection asks each shape it contains to display itself.
6. Each shape displays itself (using the Display object) according to the type of shape I have.



# 需求变动
Let’s see how this helps to handle new requirements. (Remember, requirements always change.) 

## Add new kinds of shapes
Add a triangle for example。
To introduce a new kind of shape, only two steps are required: 
- Create a new derivation of Shape that defines the shape. 
- In the new derivation, implement a version of the display method that is appropriate for that shape. 


## Change the sorting algorithm
To change the method for sorting the shapes, only one step is required: 
- Modify the method in Collection. Every shape will use the new algorithm