# 意图
**Separate the construction of a complex object from its representation** so that the same construction process can create different representations.

# 动机
A reader for the *RTF(Rich Text Format)* document exchange format should be able to convert RTF to many text formats.The reader might convert RTF documents into plain ASCII text or into a text widget that can be edited interactively. The problem, however, is that the number of possible conversions is open-ended. So it should be easy to add a new conversion without modifying the reader. A solution is to configure the RTFReader class with a TextConverter object that converts RTF to another textual representation. As the RTFReader parses theRTF document, it uses the TextConverter to perform the conversion. Whenever the RTFReader recognizes an RTFtoken (either plain text or an RTFcontrol word), it issues a request to the TextConverter to convert the token. TextConverterobjects are responsible both for performing the data conversion and for representing the token in a particular format. Subclasses of TextConverter specialize in different conversions and formats.For example, an ASCIIConverter ignores requests to convert anything except plain text.ATeXConverter, on the other hand, will implement operations for all requests in order to produce a Tp^X representation that captures all the stylistic information in the text. A TextWidgetConverter will produce a complex user interfaceobject that lets the user see and edit the text